---
layout: post
category: travelling
published: true
title: "The final week of our adventure!"
tags: 
  - "thailand"
  - "bangkok"

post_author: Neil
date:   2011-04-12 11:34
picasa_album: Blog20110412
---
So the end of our trip is now here and today is the last day of our six month adventure. It seems strange and we can’t believe that we’ll be back in the UK tomorrow. Going back to normality is going to be very odd as travelling from country to country has become our normality over the last few months. Over the past week we’ve continued to enjoy Bangkok by relaxing, shopping and sightseeing. After spending a week in Sukhumvit in our serviced apartment, we checked in to a guesthouse in the Banglamphu area (backpacker land) for a couple of nights. We spent time on Soi Rambuttri and Khao San Road, where we had stayed when we were in Thailand earlier in our trip, and just chilled out in the roadside bars enjoying bottles of Singha and Chang whilst doing a spot of people watching. We also used the river ferry on the Chaophraya to get around as it’s a great way to see the city and sights. Whilst we were staying in Banglamphu we did a day trip to Siam Ocean World which is the biggest aquarium in Asia. It was a fantastic day out and we saw loads of species of fish as well as sharks, stingray, water rats, otters and penguins. The highlight of the day was watching the sharks and stingray getting fed; two divers entered their huge tank and the sharks were fed by sticking rods loaded with fish in to their mouths and then releasing the contents. As soon as the divers entered the tank all of the sharks, stingray and fish swarmed around them and the divers were literally having to push the sharks away so everyone could get a feed. One of the nurse sharks (which was absolutely massive!) was particularly hungry and took a whole container of fish for himself to nosh! We finished our day with a fish spa; it seemed like the right thing to do.

After a couple of nights in the backpacker area, we checked in to the 5* Sukhothai Hotel in Silom for the last three nights of our trip. The hotel is absolutely beautiful and the staff have been brilliant. We were staying in a Deluxe Studio on the fifth floor with a view of the 25 metre infinity pool. Our room was gorgeous and we had a huge bed, a business facilities desk, a lounge area, a walk-in wardrobe, a shower room and a huge bathroom with two sinks and a lovely big bath (which Jimmy used every day). We got a fruit basket delivered to our room each day as well as a selection of chocolate truffles and we had breakfast included in our rate which was amazing; a massive buffet with everything you could imagine. Our favourites were the freshly made pancakes with maple syrup and whipped cream and the danish pastries. Yum! We’re really going to miss the breakfasts when we get back to the UK and go back to cereal! Whilst we’ve been here we’ve spent time relaxing in our room and visiting nearby Siam to do more shopping but we weren’t really able to enjoy the pool area as it’s been cloudy with showers for the last few days which is a shame. We were able to use it for a few hours today though (Whoop!) as the sun’s been out in full force. We also had a celebrity staying at Sukhothai with us, Gok Wan. He was on the table opposite us at breakfast yesterday and he’s been sat next to us at the pool today. In the evenings we’ve been going to nice restaurants in the Silom area and on Sunday we went to a restaurant called ‘La Table De Tee’ which is Bangkok’s best rated Thai fusion restaurant. We had a six course dinner which was delicious and we feel like we’re well and truly putting all the weight back on that we lost in Australia on our ‘can’t afford to eat’ diet. We’ve had the most amazing experience and we’ve really enjoyed our time in each of the countries we’ve visited. It feels like our trip has totally flown by so I guess we’ll have to start planning our next adventure when we’re back! Ha!

See you all very soon!